I am Ostrozky Kostiantyn born in 1460
in Ostroh, Current day Lithuania.
I am a Ukrainian nobleman and
prominent military and cultural leader.
In the late 1480s, I served at the Vilnius
court of King Casimir IV. In the later years, I
distinguished myself during a Lithuanian-Muscovite
war, and headed an army responsible for defending
Right-Bank Ukraine from Tatar attacks. From
1497, I served as the grand hetman of Lithuania.
I commanded my armies in over thirty
victorious battles against the Crimean Tatars.
In 1500 I was wounded and taken prisoner by the
Muscovites during the battle on the Vedrosh River.
But managed to escape to the
Grand Duchy of Lithuania in 1507.
Reinstated as grand hetman, I continued my
successful military career. Among my most
celebrated victories were those of the large
strong Muscovite army at the Battle of Orsha in
1514 and of the Crimean Tatars at Olshanytsia in
the Kyiv region in 1527, after which 25,000 Tatars
were taken prisoner and settled near Ostroh.
My military victories earned me considerable
fame among my contemporaries. I served as mayor
of Bratslav, Zvenyhorodka, Vinnytsia, starosta
of Lutsk and marshal of Volhynia, castellan
of Vilnius, and palatine of Trakai from 1522.
One of the five wealthiest magnates in the
Lithuanian-Ruthenian state, I was a defender
and patron of the Orthodox church. I built
numerous churches in Ukraine and Lithuania,
including two Orthodox churches in Vilnius
and the Trinity Monastery in Ostroh. I built
the Kyivan Cave Monastery and was buried in the
Dormition Cathedral of the Kyivan Cave Monastery.
My time was characterized by a major efflorescence
of Ukrainian culture and a rise in the level of
popular education. Many cities became the
center of national and spiritual expansion.
I assisted in allowing a large library of Greek
and Western European theological literature,
reprints of ancient literary works, dictionaries,
cosmographies, and grammar to accumulate in
Ukraine. I worked day and night to let Ukrainians
live in pride and dignity and I hope our nation
is a beacon of enlightenment, peace, and harmony.